Document Correlation Attack (#1116)
jamulussoftware/jamulussoftware.github.io: _posts/2026-01-22-Mitigate-Correlation.md

```

### User Data

There are explorer instances collecting lists of Servers and users running from **`137.184.43.255`**, and **`134.199.209.51`**. They are hosted on [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com) instances.  
IP addresses of users collected from the listeners are being correlated with join events derived from the explorer instance to produce IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mappings. IP addresses are processed to provide geolocation data of users. This geolocation data is being collected **and** displayed without express permission of users, and with no means to opt in or out.

## Mitigations

### Clients

When you open the Connect dialog window your client starts sending pings to every Server in the list. **`24.199.107.192`** is the IP address of one of those Servers. A Server using **`24.199.107.192`** exists on each genre, their names are ***Trio***.

Blocking outgoing **UDP** traffic on your DAW or router to **`24.199.107.192`** will prevent the listeners from collecting your IP address and breaks correlation. This will help prevent you from being tracked.

### Server Admins

Server admins can decide to prevent user tracking by blocking the explorer probe.  

> If you run a Server on the Jamulus public network, it is currently being indexed by the explorer instances on **`137.184.43.255`**, and **`134.199.209.51`**.

Reviewer: 134.199.209.51 is not an explorer instance, and correlation only occurs on 137.184.43.255. I see how they probably look similar, and one might think there are two explorer instances involved. In harvest.cs, [client metadata is collected immediately before level nibbles](https://github.com/mcfnord/JamFan22/commit/677e8f4c00e5659d86c7ba4869a4a4a02173e4ce), and I refresh server cards with this signal, but all correlation occurs in the 137.x.x.x instance and nowhere else.

---
layout: post

> title: "Privacy: Mitigating User Tracking By Third Parties"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Privacy: Mitigating User Tracking By Jamulus.Live"
```

Is there anything in here about mitigating user tracking carried out by anyone but me? It kind of describes how anyone could do this, but it only explains how to mitigate one very particular website.

Reviewer 2: Still, I'd like to have this general - we don't know who else tracks.

Reviewer: Ah, _aspirational_ titling! If only the article delivered.

> title: "Mitigating User Tracking Caused By Correlation Attack"

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't call it attack as it isn't. It should be rather related say something related to "privacy" and "third party"

Author: I've removed all instances of "attack" from the document and reworded title and heading.

lang: "en"
author: "rdica"
heading: "Mitigating User Tracking Caused By Correlation Attack"
---

By default the Jamulus protocol does not map usernames to IP addresses in any publicly available data.  

> However it is possible to execute a correlation attack to achieve user&lt;&dash;&gt;IP mapping.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However it is possible to correlate connections to servers to achieve user&lt;&dash;&gt;IP mapping.  
```

I'd rather like a short technical summary here.

Author: The suggestion was implemented.

This was first reported to Jamulus developers here: [https://github.com/orgs/jamulussoftware/discussions/3545](https://github.com/orgs/jamulussoftware/discussions/3545)

<!--more-->

## Scope

> This document will attempt to summarize the problem, and provide mitigations for both users, and server admins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document will attempt to summarize how this happens, and provide mitigations for both users, and server admins.
```

I go back and forth about how much it's a problem, but I agree it is not ideal. There are a few people who seek out IPs to taunt with them. I think _ideally_ directories would gather IP addresses and use them to provide additional services that improve userbase optimizations like what I've done, and ideally, it would not be possible to derive a client's IP address. But _problems_ are things we do _mitigate_ so the words are kind of a pair.

## The Problem - Pings and Join Events

### Pings

> When a user attempts to connect to a server, they open the Connect dialog window. The client will **start** sending &ldquo;pings&rdquo; to every server listed in that genre to report delay latency &lpar;basically network distance&rpar; to those servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user wants to connect to a server, they typically open the Connect dialog window. The client will **start** sending &ldquo;pings&rdquo; to every server listed in that directory, so it can report how much delay the user would experience on each server.
```

Genre might make more sense than directory. Either's fine.

Reviewer 3: We'd rather the style guide were adhered to (usage such as "Server" for a Jamulus Server, etc).

Anyone running a server can capture those &ldquo;pings&rdquo; using tools like `tcpdump` or `tshark/wireshark` and view the IP addresses of the clients that are sending them.  

> **No username data is sent.** This is part of the Jamulus protocol, by design, to maintain a level of privacy and prevent others from finding the IP addresses of specific users.

Reviewer: There's nothing in the Jamulus protocol that leads me to believe they designed a private protocol. It's totally possible to do but they didn't do so here. Let's imagine what you're saying: Rather than ping, they _could_ ping a... username? Do pings even have payloads like that?

Security by obscurity is not security. You can't just say, oh, it's private because we didn't shove all the data in every ping. Can you tell me one way in which the Connect dialog's ping pattern promotes privacy? In MVP/V1 style, it shoves those pings out there, and then stops shoving them. You're saying their lack of explicit metadata payload is a privacy design? it's not.

### Join Events

A user will either select a server from the list, or type in a server address:port, click Connect or hit Enter, and the client will then attempt to connect to the server. At this point the client **stops** sending the &ldquo;pings&rdquo; and the client typically completes the connection to the server.

> Each genre has a directory server. The purpose of the directory server is to provide clients with a listing of servers registered to it, and the users connected to each server. This is public data, and viewed in the Connect dialog window, and available through a number of websites, like [explorer.jamulus.io](https://explorer.jamulus.io) or [jamulusjams.com](https://jamulusjams.com).

Reviewer: I think there's a third website that does this.

> Each genre has a directory server. The purpose of the directory server is to provide clients with a listing of servers registered to it, and the users connected to each server. This is public data, and viewed in the Connect dialog window, and available through a number of websites, like [explorer.jamulus.io](https://explorer.jamulus.io) or [jamulusjams.com](https://jamulusjams.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each genre has a directory server. The purpose of the directory server is to provide clients with a listing of servers registered to it, and the users connected to each server. This public data can be viewed in the Connect dialog window, and also through a number of websites, like [explorer.jamulus.io](https://explorer.jamulus.io) or [jamulusjams.com](https://jamulusjams.com).
```

I think there's also a third website that does this.

> Anyone can run an explorer instance. An explorer queries each genres directory server to get a list of servers, then queries each server directly to get a list of connected users. This is public data. **There is no IP address information on users, just the user profile data**. Again this is by design to prevent IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mapping.  This data can also be saved for later processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone can run an explorer instance. An explorer queries each genre's directory server to get a list of servers, then queries each server directly to get a list of connected users. This is public data. **There is no IP address information on users, just the user profile data for each**. Again this is by design to prevent IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mapping.  This data can also be saved for later processing.
```

If the design intends to prevent IP-username correlation, then the design is broken.

Reviewer 2: We try not to send IPs out if not necessary. The correlation is a side effect we didn't think about. 

My opinion: As long as users are aware of it and can opt out I'm mostly fine.

Reviewer: I tried discussing an opt-out, but realized it relies on trusting me. The group of people exceedingly concerned about being geolocated but willing to trust me might be a group of zero users. I also don't want to provide a false sense of security. If I make opting out easy, that doesn't protect anyone from the underlying flaw. Would people falsely think the opt-out protects them from all use of a side-channel attack?

### Correlation

Anyone can run servers **and** explorer instances.  

> Using IPs captured by a server, one can correlate **when an IP address stops pinging** &lpar;ie; just connected to a server&rpar; and **when a new client joined a server** &lpar;username data from explorer query directly to a jamulus server&rpar; to produce an IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mapping. The IP address can then be processed to provide geolocation data. From this one can determine the location of a specific user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using IPs captured by a server, one can correlate **when an IP address stops pinging** &lpar;ie; just connected to a server&rpar; and **when a new client joined a server** &lpar;username data from explorer query directly to a jamulus server&rpar; to produce an IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mapping. The IP address can then be processed to provide geolocation data. From this one can determine the approximate location of a specific user even if no location was set in the users' profile.
```

> ## Current Correlation (as of 20260202)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Current Correlation (as of 2026-02-02)
```

### Listeners

> 

Reviewer 2: You should clarify that this are known IP addresses. There could be others. Also you should link to the site this IP belongs to. 

Users should be informed about this. Judging if this is good or bad lies in the eyes of the user and cannot be part of this page.

There are seven servers on public Jamulus space, one in each genre. They are named ***Duet***, and have a userlimit set at two. They all share the same IP and each sit on different ports.  

> These servers are &ldquo;listening&rdquo; for pings from clients, and packet capturing them to get the IP addresses of users clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These servers are &ldquo;listening&rdquo; for pings from clients, and packet capturing them to get the IP addresses of user clients.
```

```

> Genre               Name   IP:port

Reviewer: This would probably look good as an actual table.

Any Genre1          Duet   24.199.107.192:22121
Any Genre2          Duet   24.199.107.192:22122
Any Genre3          Duet   24.199.107.192:22123
Rock                Duet   24.199.107.192:22124
Jazz                Duet   24.199.107.192:22125
Classical/Folk      Duet   24.199.107.192:22126
Choral/Barbershop   Duet   24.199.107.192:22127
```

### User Data

> There is an explorer instance collecting lists of servers and users running from **`137.184.43.255`**  

Reviewer: Somewhat I'm concerned that publishing the specific IP addresses will put this document out of date if I have to change IPs. I don't typically change IPs, but it can happen. Maybe I could present a page of these addresses that's always current.

Reviewer 2: Agree. Best in machine readable form (like csv or json)

> IP addresses of users collected from the listeners are being correlated with join events derived from the explorer instance to produce IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mappings. IP addresses are processed to provide geolocation data of users. This geolocation data is being collected **and** displayed without express permission of users, and with no means to opt in or out.

Reviewer: I remember going through 4 iterations of making the geolocation less specific. So here it seems misleading to be so vague about the granularity of the disclosures. I believe there are ten million people in my state, which doesn't really narrow down which house is mine.

> **This data is also being fed into AI for various analyses**, again with no express permission, and no means to opt in or out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

There's nothing in the production software that involves AI.

## Mitigations

### Clients

When you open the Connect dialog window your client starts sending pings to every server in the list. **`24.199.107.192`** is the IP address of one of those servers. A server using **`24.199.107.192`** exists on each genre, their names are ***Duet***.

> Blocking outgoing **UDP** traffic on your DAW or router to **`24.199.107.192`** will prevent the listeners from collecting your IP address and breaks correlation. This will help prevent you from being tracked.

Reviewer 2: Alternatively you can try to use the -c argument from the command line (add link to docs) to connect directly to the server by skipping directories.

Reviewer: I tried -c for the first time today and it didn't seem to work.

C:\Program Files\Jamulus>jamulus -c 77.163.83.31:22124

C:\Program Files\Jamulus>- connect on startup to address: 77.163.83.31:22124
- allocated port number: 22134

The button says Disconnect, but the slider panel title says TRYING TO CONNECT and no sliders appear.

Reviewer 2: But the GUI works for that IP?

Reviewer 3: ```
allocated port number: 22134
```
is the client-side port.  Always defaults to that.  If you like, you can use `-p` to set it.

Reviewer 3: ~~Bug confirmed.  @mcfnord could you raise an issue for it, please.~~

I'm trying to think when that could have crept in.  @softins can you think of any of the DNS changes that could have affected the `-c` start up option?  Probably best to wait for the bug ticket...

Author: Lots of servers do not permit direct connections and require joining via directory server, this is one of them. I was able to use -c anygenre1.jamulus.io:22124 on Windows command line successfully.

Reviewer 3: Ah yes - because of the hole punch.  Good point.

Reviewer: -c held promise because it is what this document claims to be about: Mitigating User Tracking By Third Parties. Alas, it isn't a reliable technique. I think I wrote code that punched the hole before, and I think when Rick mentions -c anygenre1... he's describing this two-step technique to connect from command line with no Connect dialog involved. This article should cover this technique, if its title is to be believed.

### Server Admins

> Server admins can contribute to helping prevent user tracking by blocking the explorer probe.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server admins can decide to prevent user tracking by blocking the explorer probe.  
```

> If you run a server on the jamulus public network, it is currently being indexed by the explorer instance on **`137.184.43.255`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run a server on the Jamulus public network, it is currently being indexed by the explorer instance on **`137.184.43.255`**
```

> Blocking incoming **UDP** traffic from **`137.184.43.255`** will prevent the explorer from indexing your server and breaks correlation. This will protect users on your server from being tracked while they use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blocking incoming **UDP** traffic from **`137.184.43.255`** will prevent the explorer from indexing your server and breaks correlation. This will disable user tracking on your server from the blocked server.
```

Reviewer: maybe "This will prevent users of your server from being tracked when they connect."

Reviewer: And doing this will prevent the server (when in use) from listing on https://jamulus.live. Don't leave out this consequence.

---

> Updated information can be found here: [https://jamulusjams.com/block-user-tracking.html](https://jamulusjams.com/block-user-tracking.html)

Reviewer 2: This KB entry should be held up to date imo.

### Correlation

Anyone can run servers **and** explorer instances.  

> Using IPs captured by a server, one can correlate **when an IP address stops pinging** &lpar;ie; just connected to a server&rpar; and **when a new client joined a server** &lpar;username data from explorer query directly to a jamulus server&rpar; to produce an IP&lt;&dash;&gt;username mapping. The IP address can then be processed to provide geolocation data. From this one can determine the approximate location of a specific user even if no location was set in the users' profile.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure there's any use in mentioning the user's (get the apostrophe right) profile.  The location doesn't refer to anything fixed.  You can be in London and set it to Australia.

Reviewer 3: Mmm, for some reason Github mustn't have shown me the latest commit.  It's saying "Outdated" now.

The comment stands in general, though.

Author: It doesn't matter what the location field is set to, empty or otherwise, thats a decision the user makes. The ability to make that decision is being denied with this data collection and display.

Reviewer 3: So why mention it?  My point is it's a worthless field in terms of any determination of location, so comparing to use of IP address is meaningless.

Reviewer: Not meaningless. I think Rick's point is that there's a mechanism in the UI that lets the user specify their location, which could be anywhere, such as On The Moon. That differs from the accuracy and essentially mandatory disclosure of a location geolocated by IP address. He's saying the disclosure of location has moved from the user level of control to a third party. That isn't meaningless. When I joined this forum, Rick often advocated for disclosure and control of features staying with server operators, while I've often advocated for control in the hands of end users. Here, he's saying end users should have ultimate control over this disclosure. It's not a worthless field. It's a measure of user control over their persona.

I share his concern to the degree that my own software shares a region or state, rather than a precise city (or the even more specific lat-lon). I also pair their self-described location disclosure with this more broad IP-based disclosure. But one need not do what I do. For example, last week an unknown person approached me about helping with their pet project, which appears to be a web page that shows more precise (city name) details per IP. In addition, he sought to identify every identity (user name) associated with that IP.

My response in email:

> This looks interesting. I have the technical ability to provide an API that returns IP correlations (timestamp, persona GUID, and confidence level), but I can't cooperate unless your project has a public benefit. You'd have to provide a web page at a public address. You'd also have to remove the precise city (unless it's a large city), and discard PII data on a schedule.

This response includes my distillation of both GDPR compliance and of what I'd call "Jamulus privacy norms". Rick is among a few who take a more stringent view. Ultimately I struggle to pair the meaning of being a musician with the implications of seeking extreme privacy, but it's all a pretty nuanced and philosophical set of issues. Not meaningless tho.

### User Data

> There are explorer instances collecting lists of Servers and users running from **`137.184.43.255`**, and **`134.199.209.51`**. They are hosted on [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com) instances.  

Reviewer 3: > There are explorer instances collecting lists of Servers and users running from **`137.184.43.255`**, and **`134.199.209.51`**. They are hosted on [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com) instances.  

Maybe
> There are explorer instances collecting lists of Servers and users running from **`137.184.43.255`**, and **`134.199.209.51`**. They hosted by [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com).

Reviewer: There is no explorer instance collecting lists of Servers and users on 134.199.209.51. That instance uses UDP as a quick refresh of visible names. Not collected!

Ping IP addresses come in to 24.199.107.192 (where the Trio servers are), and are paired with pseudonyms gathered at 137.184.43.255 by [a servers.php replacement](https://github.com/mcfnord/jamulus-sampler). 

So why also harvest them at 134.199.209.51? To assure the visual list is most current, especially because I pair that UDP request with one for audio nibbles, but also just as a currency refresh of the UI as compared to the cached list. The servers.php replacement is more responsive during prime time for a server, but less responsive during quiet hours.
